.\" Kronometrix Data Recording Manual Pages
.\" See man kronometrix for the short list of Kronometrix
.Dd June 23, 2019     \" DATE
.Dt CPUREC 1          \" Program name and manual section number
.Os FreeBSD
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm cpurec
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd computer system CPU data recorder
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl lhV              \" [-lhV]
.Ar | [interval                 \" Underlined argument - use .Ar anywhere to underline
[count]]                 \" Arguments
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
Reports system per-cpu statistics. In a multiprocessor environment it is very
useful to record per processor metrics in order to observe, detect and isolate
problems: the user and system time, the cpu percentage in idle state caused by
an I/O operation which is waiting to complete.
.Pp
.Nm
can run as a command line interface utility, interactive or continuous mode. In
interactive mode data is displayed to screen, which is useful for troubleshooting
and debug cases. For capacity planning or long-term trend analysis, continuous
mode is used, data being saved to disk, as
.Ar CSV (comma-separated values)
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed
.It Fl h                 \"-a flag as a list item
help information
.It Fl l
logging mode
.It Fl V
revision information
.It interval sampling interval, in seconds
.It count
number of samples
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Sh PARAMETERS          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
saves all recorded data as
.Ar CSV (comma-separated values),
all fields separated by the character ':'
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list
.It time
UNIX time. If interval is less than a second the time will be expressed in
milliseconds since Epoch. (Time)
.It cpuid
the CPU ID (virtual CPU or physical socket, core) in a multiprocessor machine. (Number)
.It userpct
CPU user space utilization, as percentage. (Number)
.It nicepct
CPU user space, nice priority utilization, as percentage. (Number)
.It syspct
CPU system space utilization, as percentage. (Number)
.It irqpct
CPU percentage servicing interrupts. (Number)
.It idlepct
CPU idle state utulization, as percentage. (Number)
.It totalpct
Total CPU utilization. (Number)
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width -compact
.It Pa cpurec 5
print per-CPU performance data, every 5 seconds
.It  Pa cpurec 5 10
print 10 times, every 5 seconds interactively to screen
.It  Pa cpurec -l 60
print continuously, every 60 seconds to raw datafile
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.Bl -diag
.It Sampling interval
This recorder supports sub second interval values. Running the recorder with
values lower than second for long periods of time will add an overhead in terms
of cpu utilization. The lower the interval value the higher the cpu utilization.
We do not recommend using values lower than 60 seconds (60s) for capacity
planning, performance analysis or other type of long historical data analysis.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr diskrec 1 ,
.Xr hdwrec 1 ,
.Xr kronometrix 1 ,
.Xr nicrec 1 ,
.Xr sysrec 1
.\" .Sh STANDARDS       \" Standards relating to command being described
.\" .Sh HISTORY         \" Document history if command behaves uniquely
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Stefan Parvu, sparvu@kronometrix.org
.\" .Sh BUGS            \" Document known, unremedied bugs