.\" Kronometrix Data Recording Manual Pages
.\" See man kronometrix for the short list of Kronometrix
.Dd June 23, 2019     \" DATE
.Dt SENDER 1          \" Program name and manual section number
.Os FreeBSD
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm sender
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd raw data transport utility
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl hvV              \" [-hvV]
.Op Fl t Ar secs         \" [-a path]
.Ar [interval]
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
Transports Kronometrix raw data files to Kronometrix Data Analytics Platform for
analysis and visualization. Kronometrix raw datafiles are flat files on disk,
produced by the Kronometrix data recorders. The transport utility uses HTTP and
HTTPS communication protocols.
.Pp
.Nm
will look and read kronometrix.json, the main configuration file, where all data
recorders and platform analytics destinations are defined. The transport utility
automatically receives data from data recorders and deliveres to one or many data
analytics platform for analysis. The utility will output all its messages and
errors under its own log file, called sender.log.
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed
.It Fl h                 \"-a flag as a list item
help information
.It Fl v
verbose mode
.It Fl t Ar sec
timeout in seconds
.It Fl V
revision information
.It interval sampling interval, in seconds. default to 60
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Sh FILES       \" May not be needed
.Bl -tag -width "/opt/kronometrix/etc/kronometrix.json" -compact
.It Pa /opt/kronometrix/etc/kronometrix.json
Kronometrix configuration
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width -compact
.It Pa sender 5
will look for new raw data every 5 seconds
.It  Pa sender -t5 15
will look every 15 seconds, forcing a timeout value at every 5 seconds to check
for raw data updates
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.Bl -diag
.It Buffering data
Currently the transport utility does not cache or maintain a buffer or queue of
the raw data changes.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cpurec 1 ,
.Xr diskrec 1 ,
.Xr hdwrec 1 ,
.Xr kronometrix 1 ,
.Xr nicrec 1 ,
.Xr sysrec 1
.\" .Sh STANDARDS       \" Standards relating to command being described
.\" .Sh HISTORY         \" Document history if command behaves uniquely
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Stefan Parvu, sparvu@kronometrix.org
.\" .Sh BUGS            \" Document known, unremedied bugs
