.TH cpurec 1  "$Date: 2014-04-27 #$" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
cpurec \- cpu Recorder. Uses perl
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cpurec
[-hv] | [interval [count]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
cpurec records per-cpu statistics. In a multiprocessor environment it is 
very useful to record per processor metrics in order to observe, 
detect and isolate problems: the user and system time, 
the cpu Percentage in idle state caused by an I/O operation which 
is waiting to complete.

.PP
The recorder uses Sys::Statistics::Linux to fetch all metrics. 
The raw data is already prepared and formatted for SDR analysis process. 
The recorder runs continuously.


.SH OS
Linux 2.6+

.SH OPTIONS
.SS
\-h
print help information

.SS
\-v
print revision information

.SS
interval
interval in seconds between each sample

.SS
count
number of samples

.PP
.SH EXAMPLES

.SS cpurec 5 
executes every 5 seconds 

.SS cpurec 5 10
executes 10 times sampled every 5 seconds

.PP
.SH FIELDS
.TP
#1 timestamp
the time in seconds since Epoch

.TP
#2 cpuid
the cpuid in a multiprocessor machine

.TP
#3 user
cpu utilization user space, in percentage

.TP
#4 nice
cpu utilization user space with nice priority, in percentage

.TP
#5 system
cpu utilization system space, in percentage

.TP
#6 idle
cpu utilization idle state, in percentage

.TP
#7 total
Total cpu utilization percentage, in percentage

.TP
#8 irq
cpu Percentage servicing interrupts

.TP
#9 softirq
cpu Percentage servicing softirqs

.TP
#10 iowait
cpu Percentage in idle state because an I/O
operation is waiting to complete

.TP
#11 steal
cpu Percentage of time spent in other operating systems
when running in a virtualized environment


.PP
.SH NOTES
This recorder supports interval values lower than second !  Running the
recorder  with  values  lower than second for long periods of time will
add an overhead in terms of cpu utilization.  The  lower  the  interval
value  the higher the cpu utilization. We do not recommend using values
lower than second for long historical recordings !

.PP
cpurec records 9 Linux OS metrics on x64 and x86 platforms !

.PP
.SH DOCUMENTATION
See SDR documentation for more details.
.SH EXIT
cpurec will run continuously until is stopped by the master script 
or manually stopped. 

.SH AUTHOR
Stefan Parvu
.SH SEE ALSO
perl(1)
