.TH diskrec 1  "$Date: 2014-04-27 #$" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
diskrec \- Disk Recorder. Uses perl
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B diskrec
[-hvV] [-d disk[,disk...]] | [interval [count]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
Records per disk performance metrics from a Linux 32 or 64bit kernel. 
The agent requires a minimum version of Linux kernel 2.6 version. 
For each disk present on the system diskrec will collect read, write
requests and read, write bytes.

.PP
The recorder uses Sys::Statistics::Linux to fetch all metrics. 
The raw data is already prepared and formatted for SDR analysis process. 
The recorder runs continuously.

.SH OS
Linux 2.6+

.SH OPTIONS
.SS
\-d disk,...
monitor one or many disks with a specific name

.SS
\-h
print help information
.SS
\-v
print verbose information
.SS
\-V
print revision information
.SS
interval
interval in seconds between each sample
.SS
count
number of samples

.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.SS diskrec 5
monitor all found disks every 5 seconds 

.SS diskrec -d sda 5 10
monitor sda disk only, 10 times sampled every 5 seconds

.SS nicrec -d sda,sdb,sdf 1.5
monitor 3 disks: sda, sdb and sdf every 1.5 seconds

.PP
.SH FIELDS
.TP
#1 timestamp
the time in seconds since Epoch

.TP
#2 disk
the disk name

.TP
#3 readreq
read requests per second, rate

.TP
#4 writereq
write requests per second, rate

.TP
#5 totreq
total read + write requests per second, rate

.TP
#6 readbyt
read bytes per second, in KB, rate

.TP
#7 writebyt
write bytes per second, in KB, rate

.TP
#8 totbyt
total read + write bytes per second, in KB, rate

.PP
.SH NOTES
This recorder supports interval values lower than second !  Running the
recorder  with  values  lower than second for long periods of time will
add an overhead in terms of CPU utilisation.  The  lower  the  interval
value  the higher the CPU utilisation. We do not recommend using values
lower than second for long historical recordings !

.PP
diskrec records 8 Linux OS metrics on x64 and x86 platforms !


.PP
.SH DOCUMENTATION
See SDR documentation for more details.
.SH EXIT
diskrec will run continuously until is stopped by the master script 
or manually stopped. 

.SH AUTHOR
Stefan Parvu
.SH SEE ALSO
perl(1)
