.\" Kronometrix Data Recording Manual Pages
.\" See man kronometrix for the short list of Kronometrix
.Dd June 23, 2019     \" DATE
.Dt HDWREC 1          \" Program name and manual section number
.Os FreeBSD
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm hdwrec
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd computer system software and hardware inventory data recorder
.Sh SYNOPSIS        \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl lhV          \" [-lhV]
.Ar | [interval     \" Underlined argument - use .Ar anywhere to underline
[count]]            \" Arguments
.Sh DESCRIPTION     \" Section Header - required - don't modify
Reports computer system software and hardware inventory information: operating
system, number of physical or virtual CPUs, number of attached disks, network
cards and IP settings, virtualization platform, uptime.
.Pp
.Nm
can run as a command line interface utility, interactive or continuous mode. In
interactive mode data is displayed to screen, which is useful for troubleshooting
and debug cases. For capacity planning or long-term trend analysis, continuous
mode is used, data being saved to disk, as
.Ar CSV (comma-separated values)
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed
.It Fl h                 \"-a flag as a list item
help information
.It Fl l
logging mode
.It Fl V
revision information
.It interval sampling interval, in seconds
.It count
number of samples
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Sh PARAMETERS          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
saves all recorded data as
.Ar CSV (comma-separated values),
all fields separated by the character ':'
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list
.It time
UNIX time. If interval is less than a second the time will be expressed in
milliseconds since Epoch. (Time)
.It hostname
computer system host name. (String)
.It hdw
machine hardware name. (String)
.It model
machine hardware model. (String)
.It hypervisor
name of the hypervisor. (String)
.It os
name of the operating system. (String)
.It relos
release number of operating system. (String)
.It kernel
kernel version and release number. (String)
.It pcpu
number of physical installed CPUs. (Number)
.It cores
number of physical CPU cores. (Number)
.It vcpu
number of virtual CPUs. (Number)
.It ht
hyper-threading: 0(OFF)/1(ON)/NA. (String)
.It memtotal
total physical memory installed in MB. (Number)
.It swaptotal
total physical swap installed in MB. (Number)
.It disks
total number of disks. (Number)
.It diskspace
total GB across all disks. (Number)
.It nics
total number of NICs. (Number)
.It uptime
how long the system has been running. (Number)
.It ips
IP interface settings. (String)
.It version
data recorders release number. (String)
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width -compact
.It Pa hdwrec 5
print system inventory data, every 5 seconds
.It  Pa hdwrec 5 10
print 10 times, every 5 seconds interactively to screen
.It  Pa hdwrec -l 60
print continuously, every 60 seconds to raw datafile
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.Bl -diag
.It Sampling interval
This recorder supports sub second interval values. Running the recorder with
values lower than second for long periods of time will add an overhead in terms
of cpu utilization. The lower the interval value the higher the cpu utilization.
We do not recommend using values lower than 60 seconds (60s) for capacity
planning, performance analysis or other type of long historical data analysis.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cpurec 1 ,
.Xr diskrec 1 ,
.Xr kronometrix 1 ,
.Xr nicrec 1 ,
.Xr sysrec 1
.\" .Sh STANDARDS       \" Standards relating to command being described
.\" .Sh HISTORY         \" Document history if command behaves uniquely
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Stefan Parvu, sparvu@kronometrix.org
.\" .Sh BUGS            \" Document known, unremedied bugs