.TH netrec 1  "$Date:: 2014-04-27 #$" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
netrec \- Network Protocol Recorder. Uses perl, netstat
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B netrec
[-hv] | [interval [count]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
netrec is responsible for collecting network protocol statistics.
A protocol network recorder gathering data from TCP, UDP or
IP of your network stack. 

.PP
The recorder uses netstat to fetch all metrics. 
The raw data is already prepared and formatted for SDR analysis process. 
The recorder runs continuously.

.SH OS
Linux 2.6+

.SH OPTIONS

.SS
\-h
print help information

.SS
\-v
print revision information

.SS
interval
interval in seconds between each sample

.SS
count
number of samples

.PP
.SH EXAMPLES

.SS netrec 5
executes every 5 seconds 

.SS netrec 5 2
executes every 5 seconds, 2 times only

.PP
.SH FIELDS

.TP
#1 timestamp
the time in seconds since Epoch

.TP
#2 active
TCP active connections

.TP
#3 passive
TCP passiveconnections

.TP
#4 failed
TCP failed connection attempts

.TP
#5 recv_rst
TCP connection resets received

.TP
#6 est
TCP connections established

.TP
#7 sent_rst
TCP resets sent

.TP
#8 upks_recv
UDP packets received

.TP
#9 upks_sent
UDP packets sent

.TP
#10 fast_retr
Fast retransmits

.TP
#11 fwd_retr
Forward retransmits

.TP
#12 slow_retr
Retransmits in slow start

.PP
.SH NOTES
This recorder supports interval values lower than second !
Running the recorder with values lower than second for long
periods of time will add an overhead in terms of CPU utilisation.
The lower the interval value the higher the CPU utilisation. We do
not recommend using values lower than second for long historical
recordings !

.PP
netrec records 11 TCP/UDP Linux OS metrics on x64 and x86 platforms !

.PP
.SH DOCUMENTATION
See SDR documentation for more details.
.SH EXIT
netrec will run continuously until is stopped by the master script 
or manually stopped. 
.SH AUTHOR
Stefan Parvu
.SH SEE ALSO
netstat(8)
