.\" Kronometrix Data Recording Manual Pages
.\" See man kronometrix for the short list of Kronometrix
.Dd June 23, 2019     \" DATE
.Dt NICREC 1          \" Program name and manual section number
.Os FreeBSD
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm nicrec
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd computer system NIC data recorder
.Sh SYNOPSIS        \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl lhV          \" [-lhV]
.Ar | [interval     \" Underlined argument - use .Ar anywhere to underline
[count]]            \" Arguments
.Sh DESCRIPTION     \" Section Header - required - don't modify
Reports per NIC performance metrics including: number of KBytes received/sec,
number of packets received/sec, number of KBytes transmitted/sec, number of 
packets transmitted/sec, transmission errors.
.Pp
.Nm
can run as a command line interface utility, interactive or continuous mode. In
interactive mode data is displayed to screen, which is useful for troubleshooting
and debug cases. For capacity planning or long-term trend analysis, continuous
mode is used, data being saved to disk, as
.Ar CSV (comma-separated values)
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed
.It Fl h                 \"-a flag as a list item
help information
.It Fl l
logging mode
.It Fl V
revision information
.It interval sampling interval, in seconds
.It count
number of samples
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Sh PARAMETERS          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
saves all recorded data as
.Ar CSV (comma-separated values),
all fields separated by the character ':'
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list
.It time
UNIX time. If interval is less than a second the time will be expressed in
milliseconds since Epoch. (Time)
.It NICID
the NIC ID. (Number)
.It rxpkt
rx packets per sec. (Number)
.It rxkbytes
rx KBytes per sec. (Number)
.It rxerr
rx packets containing errors. (Number)
.It rxdrop
rx drop packets. (Number)
.It txpkt
tx packets per sec. (Number)
.It txkbytes
tx KBytes per sec. (Number)
.It txerr
tx packets containg errors. (Number)
.It txdrop
tx drop packets. (Number)
.It txcol
packet collision. (Number)
.It rxtxpkt
rx+tx packets per sec. (Number)
.It rxtxkbytes
rx+tx KBytes per sec. (Number)
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width -compact
.It Pa nicrec 5
print per-NIC performance data, every 5 seconds
.It  Pa nicrec 5 10
print 10 times, every 5 seconds interactively to screen
.It  Pa nicrec -l 60
print continuously, every 60 seconds to raw datafile
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.Bl -diag
.It Sampling interval
This recorder supports sub second interval values. Running the recorder with
values lower than second for long periods of time will add an overhead in terms
of cpu utilization. The lower the interval value the higher the cpu utilization.
We do not recommend using values lower than 60 seconds (60s) for capacity
planning, performance analysis or other type of long historical data analysis.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cpurec 1 ,
.Xr diskrec 1 ,
.Xr hdwrec 1 ,
.Xr kronometrix 1 ,
.Xr sysrec 1
.\" .Sh STANDARDS       \" Standards relating to command being described
.\" .Sh HISTORY         \" Document history if command behaves uniquely
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Stefan Parvu, sparvu@kronometrix.org
.\" .Sh BUGS            \" Document known, unremedied bugs