.TH sender 1  "$Date: 2014-04-27 #$" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
sender \- krd raw data transport utility. Uses perl

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sender
[\-hvV] [\-t secs] [interval]
.SH DESCRIPTION
sender is responsible for sending krd raw data updates to a backend 
reporting system for instant monitoring: updates, plotting. It uses
two types of transport protocols: HTTP or HTTPS. At this moment we 
are supporting only HTTP.
.PP
During its start, sender, will look for the main configuration file, 
kronometrix.json to fetch the raw data files will look after and where to 
transport the changes, one or many analytics appliances.

.SH Transport
sender uses HTTP or HTTPS transport protocols to send all krd raw data
updates over to one or many analytics appliances. The HTTP protocol is 
suitable for most installations where the targets sit on Internet, on different networks.
As well this transport can be used if a number of targets are placed
on a private network.

.PP
By default, sender will output all its messages and errors under 
prefix/log/sender.log log file.

.SH OPTIONS
.SS
\-h
print help information
.SS
\-v 
verbose mode
.SS
\-t
timeout seconds, default 25 seconds
.SS
\-V
print revision information
.SS
interval
interval in seconds between each sample, default 60 seconds

.SH EXAMPLES
.SS sender 5
will look for new krd raw data every 5 seconds
.SS sender -t5 15
will look every 15 seconds, forcing a timeout value at every 5 seconds to check
for krd raw data updates

.SH FILES
.I /opt/kronometrix/etc/kronometrix.json
configuration file.

.SH NOTES
Currently sender does not cache or maintain a buffer of all krd raw data changes
in case the reporting backend turns unavailable. 

.SH DOCUMENTATION
See Kronometrix documentation for more details.

.SH AUTHOR
Stefan Parvu

.SH SEE ALSO
perl(1)
