.\" Kronometrix Data Recording Manual Pages
.\" See man kronometrix for the short list of Kronometrix
.Dd June 23, 2019     \" DATE
.Dt SYSREC 1          \" Program name and manual section number
.Os FreeBSD
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm sysrec
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd computer system performance data recorder
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl lhV              \" [-lhV]
.Ar | [interval                 \" Underlined argument - use .Ar anywhere to underline
[count]]                 \" Arguments
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
Reports overall system performance data, across all devices: CPU, memory,
storage and network utilization and throughput, errors and load averages.
.Pp
.Nm
can run as a command line interface utility, interactive or continuous mode. In
interactive mode data is displayed to screen, which is useful for troubleshooting
and debug cases. For capacity planning or long-term trend analysis, continuous
mode is used, data being saved to disk, as
.Ar CSV (comma-separated values)
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed
.It Fl h                 \"-a flag as a list item
help information
.It Fl l
logging mode
.It Fl V
revision information
.It interval sampling interval, in seconds
.It count
number of samples
.El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENVVAR1"
.\" .It Ev ENVVAR1
.\" Description of ENVVAR1
.\" .It Ev ENVVAR2
.\" Description of ENVVAR2
.\" .El
.Sh PARAMETERS          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
saves all recorded data as
.Ar CSV (comma-separated values),
all fields separated by the character ':'
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list
.It time
UNIX time. If interval is less than a second the time will be expressed in
milliseconds since Epoch. (Time)
.It cpupct
CPU utilization, across all CPUs, as percentage. (Number)
.It sumpct
Sum of all CPUs utilization, as percentage. (Number)
.It headpct
Headroom CPU available, all CPUs. (Number)
.It userpct
CPU user space utilization, as percentage. (Number)
.It nicepct
CPU user space, nice priority utilization, as percentage. (Number)
.It syspct
CPU system space utilization, as percentage. (Number)
.It irqpct
CPU percentage servicing interrupts. (Number)
.It idlepct
CPU idle state utulization, as percentage. (Number)
.It runqsz
Run queue length, tasks waiting for run time. (Number)
.It blocked
Number of processes blocked for resources. (Number)
.It pagewait
Number of processes blocked for paging. (Number)
.It diskwait
Number of processes blocked for disk io. (Number)
.It sleeping
Number of processes sleeping. (Number)
.It memusedpct
Size of used memory as percentage. (Number)
.It memused
Size of used memory in kilobytes. (Number)
.It memavailpct
Size of available memory as percentage. (Number)
.It memavail
Size of available memory in kilobytes. (Number)
.It memtotal
Size of memory in kilobytes. (Number)
.It active
Size of active memory pages in kilobytes. (Number)
.It inactive
Size of inactive memory pages in kilobytes. (Number)
.It wired
Size of wired memory pages in kilobytes. (Number)
.It cache
Size of memory pages on cache queue in kilobytes. (Number)
.It free
Size of free memory pages in kilobytes. (Number)
.It realfree
Size of real free memory in kilobytes, (inactive + cache + free). (Number)
.It realfreepct
Size of real free memory as percentage, of total memory. (Number)
.It swapin
Swap pager pageins. (Number)
.It swappgsin
Swap pager pages paged in. (Number)
.It swapout
Swap pager pageouts. (Number)
.It swappgsout
Swap pager pages paged out. (Number)
.It reads
Read requests per second. (Number)
.It rkbytes
Read KB per second. (Number)
.It writes
Write requests per second. (Number)
.It wkbytes
Write KB per second. (Number)
.It queue
Number of not yet completed storage transactions. (Number)
.It service
Service time per storage transaction in miliseconds. (Number)
.It diskutil
Percentage of time the device had one or more transactions outstanding. (Number)
.It iops
Disk read+write requests per second. (Number)
.It rwkbytes
Read+write in KB per second. (Number)
.It rxpkt
Network rx packets per second. (Number)
.It rxkbytes
Network rx KB per second. (Number)
.It rxerr
Network rx packets containing errors. (Number)
.It rxdrop
Network rx drop packets per second. (Number)
.It txpkt
Network tx packets per second. (Number)
.It txkbytes
Network tx KB per second. (Number)
.It txerr
Network tx packets containing errors. (Number)
.It cols
Number of network collisions. (Number)
.It drops
Number of network dropped packets per second. (Number)
.It rxtxpkt
Network rx+tx packets per second. (Number)
.It rxtxkbytes
Network rx+tx KB per second. (Number)
.It avg1
LA of the last minute. (Number)
.It avg5
LA of the last 5 minutes (Number)
.It avg15
LA of the last 15 minutes (Number)
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width -compact
.It Pa sysrec 5
print system performance data, every 5 seconds
.It  Pa sysrec 5 10
print 10 times, every 5 seconds interactively to screen
.It  Pa sysrec -l 60
print continuously, every 60 seconds to raw datafile
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.Bl -diag
.It Sampling interval
This recorder supports sub second interval values. Running the recorder with
values lower than second for long periods of time will add an overhead in terms
of cpu utilization. The lower the interval value the higher the cpu utilization.
We do not recommend using values lower than 60 seconds (60s) for capacity
planning, performance analysis or other type of long historical data analysis.
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cpurec 1 ,
.Xr diskrec 1 ,
.Xr hdwrec 1 ,
.Xr kronometrix 1 ,
.Xr nicrec 1
.\" .Sh STANDARDS       \" Standards relating to command being described
.\" .Sh HISTORY         \" Document history if command behaves uniquely
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Stefan Parvu, sparvu@kronometrix.org
.\" .Sh BUGS            \" Document known, unremedied bugs