.\" Kronometrix Data Recording Manual Pages
.\" See man kronometrix for the short list of Kronometrix
.Dd June 23, 2019     \" DATE
.Dt XENREC 1          \" Program name and manual section number
.Os FreeBSD
.Sh NAME                 \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm xenrec
.\" Use .Nm macro to designate other names for the documented program.
.Nd computer system Xen hypervisor data recorder
.Sh SYNOPSIS             \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
.Op Fl lhV              \" [-lhV]
.Op Fl d Ar domain,...              \" [-lhV]
.Ar | [interval                 \" Underlined argument - use .Ar anywhere to underline
[count]]                 \" Arguments
.Sh DESCRIPTION          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
Reports per Xen domain statistics: domain state, cpu usage in seconds, cpu usage
in percentage, current memory, current memory in percentage, maximum domain
memory stats, in KB and many others. The recorder uses xentop utility to fetch
all metrics. A system running Xen Hypervisor should have by default xentop
installed. If the utility is not found xenrec will not run.
.Pp
.Nm
can run as a command line interface utility, interactive or continuous mode. In
interactive mode data is displayed to screen, which is useful for troubleshooting
and debug cases. For capacity planning or long-term trend analysis, continuous
mode is used, data being saved to disk, as
.Ar CSV (comma-separated values)
.Pp                      \" Inserts a space
The following options are available:
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Differs from above in tag removed
.It Fl h                 \"-a flag as a list item
help information
.It Fl l
logging mode
.It Fl d Ar domain
Xen domain name
.It Fl V
revision information
.It interval sampling interval, in seconds
.It count
number of samples
.El                      \" Ends the list
.\" .Sh ENVIRONMENT      \" May not be needed
.\" .Bl -tag -width "ENVVAR1"
.\" .It Ev ENVVAR1
.\" Description of ENVVAR1
.\" .It Ev ENVVAR2
.\" Description of ENVVAR2
.\" .El
.Sh PARAMETERS          \" Section Header - required - don't modify
.Nm
saves all recorded data as
.Ar CSV (comma-separated values),
all fields separated by the character ':'
.Bl -tag -width -indent  \" Begins a tagged list
.It time
UNIX time. If interval is less than a second the time will be expressed in
milliseconds since Epoch. (Time)
.It name
domain name, the guest domU name. (String)
.It state
domain state: blocked (b), dying (d), shutdown (s) crashed (c), paused (p), running (r). (Number)
.It cputime
cpu usage in seconds (Number)
.It cpupct
cpu usage in percentage. (Number)
.It mem
current memory. (Number)
.It mempct
current memory in percentage. (Number)
.It maxmem
maximum domain memory stats, in KB. (Number)
.It maxmempct
memory stats in percentage, ratio of current domain memory to total node memory. (Number)
.It vpus
number of virtual processing units, vCPUs. (Number)
.It nets
number of virtual networks. (Number)
.It nettx
data transmission rate in KB. (Number)
.It netrx
data receiving rate in KB. (Number)
.It vbds
total number of virtual block devices in the domain. (Number)
.It vbdoo
total number of VBD OO requests. (Number)
.It vbdrd
VBD read rate. (Number)
.It vbdwr
VBD write rate. (Number)
.It vbdrsect
VBD read sectors rate. (Number)
.It vbdwsect
VBD write sectors rate. (Number)
.It ssid
domain security id. (Number)
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bl -tag -width -compact
.It Pa xenrec 60
print system performance data, every 60 seconds
.It  Pa xenrec 60 10
print 10 times, every 60 seconds interactively to screen
.It  Pa xenrec -l 60
print continuously, every 60 seconds to raw datafile
.El                      \" Ends the list
.Sh DIAGNOSTICS       \" May not be needed
.Bl -diag
.It Sampling interval
This recorder does not support interval values lower than 2 seconds!
.El
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr cpurec 1 ,
.Xr diskrec 1 ,
.Xr hdwrec 1 ,
.Xr kronometrix 1 ,
.Xr nicrec 1 ,
.Xr sysrec 1
.\" .Sh STANDARDS       \" Standards relating to command being described
.\" .Sh HISTORY         \" Document history if command behaves uniquely
.Sh AUTHORS
.An Stefan Parvu, sparvu@kronometrix.org
.\" .Sh BUGS            \" Document known, unremedied bugs