.TH cpurec 1  "$Date: 2012-05-23 #$" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
cpurec \- Cpu Recorder. Uses perl
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B cpurec
[-hv]
[interval [count]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
cpurec is responsible for collecting per-cpu statistics. 
In a multiprocessor environment it is very useful to 
record per processor metrics in order to observe, 
detect and isolate problems: the user and system
time, the rate of multiprocessor cross calls, for instance.
Cpurec raw data is already prepared and formatted for 
SDR analysis process. The recorder runs continuously.

.SH OS
Solaris 10+
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h
print help information
.TP
\-v
print revision information
.TP
interval
interval in seconds between each sample
.TP
count
number of samples

.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Example 1: executes every 5 seconds 
.B $ cpurec 5

.TP
Example 2: executes 10 times sampled every 5 seconds
.B $ cpurec 5 10

.PP
.SH FIELDS

.TP
#01 timestamp
seconds since Epoch

.TP
#02 Xcalls
rate of multiprocessor cross calls, gauge

.TP
#03 Intr
rate of intrerrupts, gauge

.TP 
#04 iThr
rate of interrupts threads, gauge

.TP
#05 Csw
rate of context switches, gauge

.TP
#06 Icsw
rate of involuntary context switches, gauge

.TP
#07 Migr
rate of migrations, gauge

.TP
#08 Smtx
rate of kernel mutexes, gauge

.TP
#09 Syscalls
rate of system calls, gauge

.TP
#10 User
percentage of time spent in user mode, gauge

.TP
#11 Sys
percentage of time spent in sys mode, gauge

.TP
#12 Idle
percentage of time spent in idle mode, gauge

.PP
.SH NOTES
cpurec might report from time to time bogus data, regarding
User, System and Idle time, User+Sys+Idle=100. This issue 
comes from the fact that any consumer of the cpu sys kstats 
will seem the same thing. As a general note all measurement 
contains errors. The question is always how much error? 
The bogus data can easily be explained by rounding errors. 
This has been recorded as well on different operating systems:
Linux, for instance.


.PP
.SH DOCUMENTATION
See SDR documentation for more details.
.SH EXIT
cpurec will run forever until is stopped by the SMF or
manually stopped using svcadm. Remember cpurec in Solaris
operates via SMF so if you dont shutdown properly the SMF 
service the SMF will automatically restart the recorder !

.SH AUTHOR
Stefan Parvu
.SH SEE ALSO
perl(1)
