.TH jvmrec 1  "$Date:: 2013-04-30 #$" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
jvmrec \- Java Virtual Machine GC collector. Uses ksh, jstat, perl
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B jvmrec
[-l] [-f weblogic] interval

.SH DESCRIPTION
jvmrec is responsible for collecting Java virtual machine statistics.
On Solaris systems, the recorder connects to each zone, global or non-global,
fetches all running JVMs and extracts the garbage collection statistics
from each target process using
.I
jstat
, standard utility of the JDK. Jvmrec raw data is already prepared
and formatted for SDR analysis process. The recorder runs continuously.

.SH OS
Solaris

.SH OPTIONS

.TP
\-l
matches the JVMs only from a local Solaris zone

.TP
\-f weblogic
matches the JVM based on a weblogic name

.TP
interval
interval in seconds between each samples. Default 300
seconds. Make sure to dont use values lower than 1 minute since 
under busy environments to gather JVM data might take longer
than 1 minute. For Solaris environments, the recorder outputs 
the data to standard output, a line per each zone.

.PP
.SH EXAMPLES

.TP
Example 1: executes every 60 seconds 
.B # jvmrec 60 

.TP
Example 2: executes every 300 seconds 
.B # jvmrec -f weblogic 300

.PP
.SH FIELDS

.TP
#01 timestamp
seconds since Epoch

.TP
#02 zone.pid
name of the zone and process ID

.TP
#03 s0pct
Survivor S0 utilisation, percentage, gauge

.TP
#04 s1pct
Survivor S1 utilisation, percentage, gauge

.TP
#05 edenpct
Eden space utilisation, percentage, gauge

.TP
#06 oldpct
Old space utilisation, percentage, gauge

.TP
#07 permpct
Permanent space utilisation, percentage, gauge

.TP
#08 mGC
Number of young generation GC events

.TP
#09 tmGC
Young generation garbage collection time, secs

.TP
#10 MGC
Number of full GC events

.TP
#11 tMGC
Full garbage collection time, secs

.TP
#12 totalGC   : Total garbage collection time, secs


.PP
.SH NOTES
jvmrec uses jstat utility, found under Java Development Kit
release. You must have a valid and operational jstat 
utility on your system. On FreeBSD you should install a JDK
from the FreeBSD foundation and its additional package 
dependencies. On RedHat or other Linux based operating system 
you must be sure you use Sun's HotSpot VM. Currently jvmrec 
operates on Sun's HotSpot VM. Future versions of SDR will 
add support for Oracle JRockit and IBM J9 VMs.

.PP
Make sure if running G1 garbage collector the main jdk
utilities: jmap, jstat work before running jvmrec. G1 is 
not fully supported on Java 6 therefore jvmrec might not be able 
to record GC activity if G1 collector will be in use. There are 
several issues with jstat and G1 on Java 6: 

.TP
6946385 : G1: jstat does not support G1 GC

.TP
7075646 : G1: fix inconsistencies in the monitoring data

.TP
6946417 : G1: Java VisualVM does not support G1 properly

.PP
.SH DOCUMENTATION
See SDR documentation for more details.

.SH EXIT
jvmrec will run forever until is stopped by the SMF or
manually stopped using svcadm. Remember jvmrec in Solaris
operates via SMF so if you dont shutdown properly the SMF 
service the SMF will automatically restart the recorder !

.SH AUTHOR
Stefan Parvu

.SH SEE ALSO
ksh(1), perl(1), jstat(1)
