.TH nicrec 1  "$Date: 2012-05-23 #$" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
nicrec \- Network Interface Card Recorder. Uses perl
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B nicrec
[-hsz] 
[-i int[,int...]] |
[interval [count]]
.SH DESCRIPTION
nicrec is responsible for collecting network interface 
card statistics. Network Interface Card recorder, used 
to measure the Kb/s transferred for all the network cards 
(NICs), including packet counts and average sizes. 
The first line is the summary data since boot. Nicrec 
raw data is already prepared and formatted for SDR
analysis process. The recorder runs continuously.

.SH OS
Solaris 8+
.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-s
summary report

.TP
\-z
skip zero value lines

.TP
\-h
print help information

.TP
\-v
print revision information

.TP
interval
interval in seconds between each sample

.TP
count
number of samples

.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Example 1: executes every 5 seconds 
.B $ nicrec 5

.TP
Example 2: executes 10 times sampled every 5 seconds
.B $ nicrec 5 10

.TP
Example 3: executes every 1 minute for nge0 interface
.B $ nicrec -i nge0 60



.PP
.SH FIELDS

.TP
#01 timestamp
seconds since Epoch

.TP
#02 int
interface

.TP
#03 rKB/s
read KB/s, gauge

.TP
#04 wKB/s
write KB/s, gauge

.TP
#05 rPk/s
read Packets/s, gauge

.TP
#06 wPk/s
write Packets/s, gauge

.TP
#07 rAvs
read Average size, bytes

.TP
#08 wAvs
write Average size, bytes

.TP
#09 %Util
utilization (read+write)/nic speed, gauge

.TP
#10 Sat
Saturation: defer, nocanput, norecvbuf, noxmtbuf, gauge


.PP
Utilisation is based on bytes transferred divided 
by speed of the interface. It should be impossible 
to reach 100% as there are overheads due to bus
negotiation and timing. Saturation is determined by 
counting read and write errors caused by the interface 
running at saturation. This approach is not ideal, and the value
reported is often lower than it should be (eg, 0.0). 
Reading the rKb/s and wKb/s fields may be more useful.

.PP
.SH DOCUMENTATION
See SDR documentation for more details.
.SH EXIT
nicrec will run forever until is stopped by the SMF or
manually stopped using svcadm. Remember nicrec in Solaris
operates via SMF so if you dont shutdown properly the SMF 
service the SMF will automatically restart the recorder !
 
.SH AUTHOR
Brendan Gregg, Stefan Parvu
.SH SEE ALSO
perl(1)
