.TH sender 1  "September 30, 2012" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
sender \- sdrd raw data transport utility. Uses perl

.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sender
[\-hvV] [\-t secs] [interval]
.SH DESCRIPTION
sender is responsible for sending sdrd raw data updates to a backend 
reporting system for instant monitoring: updates, plotting. It uses
SSH2 for a secure transport between each recording host and the 
backend reporting server.
.PP
During its start, sender, will look for the main SDR configuration file, 
sdr.conf to fetch what sdrd raw data files will look after and where to 
transport the changes. Make sure you have a single backend reporting server 
defined currently under sdr.conf ! Currently the last definition of the
reporting host will be used.
.PP
The utility uses SSH2 transport libraries to create a connection from
each recording host to a backend reporting system and send all updates via
this connection. In case of a temporarily failure sender will reopen the 
SSH2 connections and start sending the updates again. If for some reasons 
the backend system wont answer in a proper time, sender will wait until 
the reporting will allow connections or comeback alive. In case of a fatal 
connection failure sender will wait permanentely for the backend reporting 
server.
.PP
By default, sender will output all its messages and errors under 
prefix/log/sender.log log file.

.SH OS
Linux, Solaris

.SH OPTIONS
.SS
\-h
print help information
.SS
\-v 
verbose mode
.SS
\-t
timeout seconds, default 25 seconds
.SS
\-V
print revision information
.SS
interval
interval in seconds between each sample, default 60 seconds

.SH EXAMPLES
.SS sender 5
will look for new sdrd raw data every 5 seconds
.SS sender -t5 15
will look every 15 seconds, forcing a timeout value at every 5 seconds to check
for sdrd raw data updates

.SH FILES
.I /opt/sdr/etc/sdr.conf
SDR System configuration file.

.SH NOTES
Currently sender does not cache or maintain a buffer of all sdrd raw data changes
in case the reporting backend turns unavailable. Do make sure you have a functional
backend reporting server up, accepting SSH2 connections.
Currently sender does not support more than one backend reporting server.

.PP
By default sender will know to close and re-open the SSH2 channel to the reporting 
server if the connection is terminated or the server itself terminates the connection.
However, in certain situations, like power outages or sudden crashes sender might
remain in established mode even if the SSH2 server has died. In such cases sender will
wait for TCP Keepalive system to terminate the connection.

.PP
By default sender does not open the SSH2 channel using keep alive option turned ON.
You should change under sdr.conf tcp_keepalive element to 1 in order to have 
sender opening the TCP socket using keepalive mechanism and benefit from that.

.SH DOCUMENTATION
See SDR documentation for more details.

.SH AUTHOR
Stefan Parvu

.SH SEE ALSO
perl(1)
