.TH zonerec 1  "$Date: 2012-05-23 #$" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
zonerec \- Zone Recorder. Uses zoneadm, perl
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B zonerec
interval count
.SH DESCRIPTION
zonerec is responsible for collecting Solaris container 
or zone statistics. The recorders goes over all deployed Solaris 
zones and extracts the processes and zone statistics using
.I
prstat
utility. zonerec raw data is not prepared and formatted for 
SDR analysis process. A reporting process is needed to 
filter and pre-process the raw data. The recorder runs continuously.

.SH OS
Solaris 10+

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
\-h
print help information
.TP
\-v
print revision information
.TP
interval
interval in seconds between each sample
.TP
count
number of samples


.PP
.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Example 1: executes every 60 seconds 
.B $ zonerec 60


.PP
.SH FIELDS

.TP
#01 timestamp
seconds since Epoch

.TP
#02 zonename
Solaris zone name

.TP
#03 zid
Solaris zone id

.TP
#04 cpu
CPU utilisation, percentage, gauge

.TP
#05 mem
Mem utilisation, percentage, gauge

.TP
#06 nproc
no. of processes used by zoneid

.TP
#07 swap
total swap used by zoneid, includes tmpfs mounts, in bytes

.TP
#08 rss
resident set size, the amount of physical memory, in bytes


.PP
.SH DOCUMENTATION
See SDR documentation for more details.
.SH EXIT
zonerec will run forever until is stopped by the SMF or
manually killed. Remember zonerec operates via SMF
so if you dont shutdown properly the SMF service 
the SMF will automatically restart the zonerec recorder !
 
.SH AUTHOR
Stefan Parvu
.SH SEE ALSO
zoneadm(1M), prstat(1M), perl(1)
