.TH procrec 1  "$Date: 2014-04-27 #$" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
procrec \- Process Recorder. Uses perl
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B procrec
[-hv] [-n name] [-x [-e expr]] [-p pid[,pid...]] [-u user] | [interval [count]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
procrec records per process statistics: owner, state, nice, the priority 
of the process, number of light weight processes, number of open file 
descriptors, number of minor and major faults the process made and many 
other metrics. The recorder will report only certain processes if different
filters are used: name, username or pid. To access the full command line
arguments of each process procrec must run in extended mode. In extended
mode an additional filter is used to extract only certain information
from the command line arguments.

.PP
By default procrec will monitor all available processes, for all users.
Certain metrics, like the number of file descriptors will not be available
if the target process is not owned by the user running procrec. 

.PP
The recorder uses Sys::Statistics::Linux to fetch all metrics. 
procrec raw data is already prepared and formatted for the analysis process. 
The recorder runs continuously.

.SH OS
Linux 2.6+

.SH OPTIONS
.SS
\-h
print help information

.SS
\-v
print revision information

.SS
\-n name
monitor a list of processes with a specific name, 
where name is a Perl regexp

.SS
\-x
enables extended mode, where command line arguments are reported

.SS
\-e expr
expression mode, works in extended mode only used to display the command line
arguments only matching a specific expression

.SS
\-p pid,...
monitor a list of processes with specified process IDs

.SS
\-u user
monitor a list of processes with a specific username

.SS
interval
interval in seconds between each sample

.SS
count
number of samples

.SS

.PP
.SH EXAMPLES

.SS procrec 5
monitor all running processes every 5 seconds 

.SS procrec -n java -x 5 10
monitor all java running processes, using extended mode 10 times sampled every 5 seconds

.SS procrec -p 1,2,3,101 -x
monitor the following process ids: 1,2,3,101 using extended mode


.PP
.SH FIELDS
.TP
#1 timestamp
the time in seconds since Epoch

.TP
#2 pid
the process id of the process

.TP
#3 cmd
command of the process 

.TP
#4 owner 
the owner of the process

.TP
#5 state 
the status of the process

.TP
#6 nice
the nice level of the process 

.TP
#7 prior 
the priority of the process (+15)

.TP
#8 nlwp 
number of light weight processes by this process

.TP
#9 fds 
number of open file descriptors

.TP
#10 minflt 
number of minor faults the process made

.TP
#11 majflt 
number of major faults the process made

.TP
#12 utime 
number of jiffies proc have beed in user mode

.TP
#13 stime 
number of jiffies proc have beed in kernel mode

.TP
#14 ttime
number of jiffies proc have beed (user + kernel)

.TP
#15 cutime
number of jiffies proc waited for childs in user mode

.TP
#16 cstime
number of jiffies proc waited for childs in kernel mode

.TP
#17 cpu
the cpu number the process was last executed on

.TP
#18 size
the total program size of the process, in bytes

.TP
#19 resident
the resident set size(the text, data, stack), in bytes

.TP
#20 nswap
the size of swap space of the process

.TP
#21 cnswap
the size of swap space of the childrens of the process

.TP
#22 syscr
number of read syscalls

.TP
#23 rchar
bytes read from storage (might have been from pagecache)

.TP
#24 read_bytes
bytes really fetched from storage layer

.TP
#25 syscw
number of write syscalls

.TP
#26 wchar
bytes written

.TP
#27 write_bytes
bytes sent to the storage layer

.TP
#28 cmdline
command line of the process


.PP
.SH NOTES
In computing, a jiffy is the duration of one tick of the system timer interrupt. 
It is not an absolute time interval unit, since its duration depends on the clock 
interrupt frequency of the particular hardware platform. Within the Linux operating 
system kernel, since release 2.6.13, on the Intel i386 platform a jiffy is by 
default 4 ms, or 1/250 of a second. The jiffy values for other Linux versions 
and platforms have typically varied between about 1 ms and 10 ms. [Wikipedia]

.PP
This recorder supports interval values lower than second !  Running the
recorder  with  values  lower than second for long periods of time will
add an overhead in terms of cpu utilization.  The  lower  the  interval
value  the higher the cpu utilization. We do not recommend using values
lower than second for long historical recordings !

.PP
procrec records 26 Linux OS metrics on x64 and x86 platforms !

.PP
This is a Linux only recorder.

.PP
.SH DOCUMENTATION
See Kronometrix documentation for more details.
.SH EXIT
procrec will run continuously until is stopped by the master script 
or manually stopped. 

.SH AUTHOR
Stefan Parvu
.SH SEE ALSO
perl(1)
