.TH sysrec 1  "$Date: 2014-04-27 #$" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
sysrec \- system Recorder. Uses perl
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B sysrec
[-hV] | [interval [count]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
sysrec records the following system performance parameters: cpu, memory
utilization, disk and network throughput, errors and system load averages. 
The recorder reports several key metrics across all devices,
responsible for overall system performance. 
This will be the first place to check how your system performs in the long run.

.PP
The recorder uses Sys::Statistics::Linux to fetch all metrics. 
The raw data is already prepared and formatted for the analysis process. 
The recorder runs continuously.


.SH OS
Linux 2.6+

.SH OPTIONS
.SS
\-h
print help information

.SS
\-x
print additional memory statistics

.SS
\-V
print revision information

.SS
interval
interval in seconds between each sample

.SS
count
number of samples

.PP
.SH EXAMPLES

.SS sysrec 5
executes every 5 seconds 

.SS sysrec 5 10
executes 10 times sampled every 5 seconds

.SS sysrec .5
executes every 0.5 seconds

.PP
.SH FIELDS
sysrec outputs utilization and specific metrics 
character \: separated.

.TP
#1 timestamp
the time in seconds since Epoch. If interval is
less than a second the time will be expressed in
milliseconds since Epoch.

.TP
#2 cpupct
cpu utilization, across all cpus, percentage, gauge

.TP
#03 sumpct
sum of all cpus utilization, percentage, gauge

.TP
#04 headpct
headroom cpu available, all cpus, percentage, gauge

.TP
#05 userpct
cpu utilization user space in percent, gauge

.TP
#06 nicepct
cpu utilization user space with nice priority, gauge

.TP
#07 sysct
cpu utilization system space, gauge

.TP
#08 idlepct
cpu utilization idle state, gauge

.TP
#09 iowaitcpt
cpu percentage in idle state because an I/O operation is waiting 
to complete, gauge

.TP
#10 irqpct
cpu percentage servicing interrupts, gauge

.TP
#11 softirqpct
cpu percentage servicing softirqs, gauge

.TP
#12 stealpct
cpu percentage of time spent in other operating systems when running in a virtualized environment, gauge

.TP
#13 runqsz
run queue length, number of tasks waiting for run time

.TP
#14 plistsz
number of tasks in the task list

.TP
#15 memusedper
Total size of used memory in percent

.TP
#16 memused
Total size of used memory in kilobytes

.TP
#17 memfree
Total size of free memory in kilobytes

.TP
#18 memtotal
Total size of memory in kilobytes

.TP
#19 buffers
Total size of buffers used from memory in kilobytes

.TP
#20 cached
Total size of cached memory in kilobytes

.TP
#21 realfree
Total size of memory is real free, (memfree + buffers + cached)

.TP
#22 realfreeper
Total size of memory is real free in percent of total memory
 
.TP
#23 swapusedper
Total size of used swap space in percent

.TP
#24 swapused
Total size of swap space is used is kilobytes

.TP
#25 swapfree
Total size of swap space is free in kilobytes

.TP
#26 swaptotal
Total size of swap space in kilobytes

.TP
#27 swapcached
Memory that once was swapped out, is swapped back in but still also is in the swapfile

.TP
#28 readReq
Total disk read requests across all disks, counter

.TP
#29 writeReq
Total disk write requests, counter

.TP
#30 totReq
Total disk read+write requests, counter

.TP
#31 readByt
Total read bytes / sec across all disks, in KB

.TP
#32 writeByt
Total write bytes / sec across all disks, in KB

.TP
#33 totByt
Total read+write bytes / sec across all disks, in KB

.TP
#34 rxByt
Total network received bytes /sec across all NICs, in KB

.TP
#35 txByt
Total network transmitted bytes /sec across all NICs, in KB

.TP
#36 ntByt
Total network received + transmitted bytes /sec across all NICs, in KB

.TP
#37 rxerr 
Number of errors that happend while received packets/second

.TP
#38 txerr 
Number of errors that happend while transmitting packets/second

.TP
#39 rxdrp
Number of rx packets that were dropped per second

.TP
#40 txdrp
Number of tx packets that were dropped per second

.TP
#41 avg_1
LA of the last minute

.TP
#42 avg_5
LA of the last 5 minutes

.TP
#43 avg_15
LA of the last 15 minutes

.PP
.SH NOTES
This recorder supports interval values lower than second ! 
Running the recorder with values lower than second for long
periods of time will add an overhead in terms of cpu utilization.
The lower the interval value the higher the cpu utilization. We do
not recommend using values lower than second for long historical
recordings !

.PP
sysrec records up to 43 metrics under Linux OS x64 and x86 platforms.

.PP
.SH DOCUMENTATION
See Kronometrix documentation for more details.

.SH EXIT
sysrec will run continuously until is stopped by the master script 
or manually stopped.
 
.SH AUTHOR
Stefan Parvu
.SH SEE ALSO
perl(1)
