.TH webrec 1  "$Date: 2021-03-14 #$" "USER COMMANDS"
.SH NAME
webrec \- Web Data Recorder. Uses perl
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B webrec
[-dlhvV] [-s secs] [-a [-g concurrent]] | [interval [count]]

.SH DESCRIPTION
webrec reports TTFB (time to first byte) for one or many HTTP workloads,
applications, as an indication of the responsiveness. TTFB measures the
duration from the virtual user making an HTTP request to the first byte
of the page being received by the browser. This time is made up of the
socket connection time, the time taken to send the HTTP request, and the
time taken to get the first byte of the page.

.PP
The recorder uses Net::Curl to fetch all web page response time statistics. 
The raw data is already prepared and formatted for the analysis process. 
The recorder runs continuously.


.SH OS
Linux 2.6+

.SH OPTIONS
.SS
\-a
perform requests asynchronously

.SS
\-g
the number of concurrent requests. Default is 25.

.SS
\-s
sleep delay between transactions, default 0.1

.SS
\-l 
log raw data to krd file, no STDOUT

.SS
\-h
print help information

.SS
\-d
debug mode

.SS
\-V
print revision information

.SS
interval
interval in seconds between each sample

.SS
count
number of samples

.PP
.SH EXAMPLES

.SS webrec 5
executes every 5 seconds 

.SS webrec 5 10
executes 10 times sampled every 5 seconds

.SS webrec .5
executes every 0.5 seconds

.PP
.SH FIELDS
webrec outputs utilization and specific metrics 
character \: separated.

.TP
#1 timestamp
the time in seconds since Epoch. If interval is
less than a second the time will be expressed in
milliseconds since Epoch.

.TP
#2 cpupct
cpu utilization, across all cpus, percentage, gauge

.TP
#03 sumpct
sum of all cpus utilization, percentage, gauge

.TP
#04 headpct
headroom cpu available, all cpus, percentage, gauge

.TP
#05 userpct
cpu utilization user space in percent, gauge

.TP
#06 nicepct
cpu utilization user space with nice priority, gauge

.TP
#07 sysct
cpu utilization system space, gauge

.TP
#08 idlepct
cpu utilization idle state, gauge

.TP
#09 iowaitcpt
cpu percentage in idle state because an I/O operation is waiting 
to complete, gauge

.TP
#10 irqpct
cpu percentage servicing interrupts, gauge

.TP
#11 softirqpct
cpu percentage servicing softirqs, gauge

.TP
#12 stealpct
cpu percentage of time spent in other operating systems when running in a virtualized environment, gauge

.TP
#13 runqsz
run queue length, number of tasks waiting for run time

.TP
#14 plistsz
number of tasks in the task list

.TP
#15 memusedper
Total size of used memory in percent

.TP
#16 memused
Total size of used memory in kilobytes

.TP
#17 memfree
Total size of free memory in kilobytes

.TP
#18 memtotal
Total size of memory in kilobytes

.TP
#19 buffers
Total size of buffers used from memory in kilobytes

.TP
#20 cached
Total size of cached memory in kilobytes

.TP
#21 realfree
Total size of memory is real free, (memfree + buffers + cached)

.TP
#22 realfreeper
Total size of memory is real free in percent of total memory
 
.TP
#23 swapusedper
Total size of used swap space in percent

.TP
#24 swapused
Total size of swap space is used is kilobytes

.TP
#25 swapfree
Total size of swap space is free in kilobytes

.TP
#26 swaptotal
Total size of swap space in kilobytes

.TP
#27 swapcached
Memory that once was swapped out, is swapped back in but still also is in the swapfile

.TP
#28 readReq
Total disk read requests across all disks, counter

.TP
#29 writeReq
Total disk write requests, counter

.TP
#30 totReq
Total disk read+write requests, counter

.TP
#31 readByt
Total read bytes / sec across all disks, in KB

.TP
#32 writeByt
Total write bytes / sec across all disks, in KB

.TP
#33 totByt
Total read+write bytes / sec across all disks, in KB

.TP
#34 rxByt
Total network received bytes /sec across all NICs, in KB

.TP
#35 txByt
Total network transmitted bytes /sec across all NICs, in KB

.TP
#36 ntByt
Total network received + transmitted bytes /sec across all NICs, in KB

.TP
#37 rxerr 
Number of errors that happend while received packets/second

.TP
#38 txerr 
Number of errors that happend while transmitting packets/second

.TP
#39 rxdrp
Number of rx packets that were dropped per second

.TP
#40 txdrp
Number of tx packets that were dropped per second

.TP
#41 avg_1
LA of the last minute

.TP
#42 avg_5
LA of the last 5 minutes

.TP
#43 avg_15
LA of the last 15 minutes

.PP
.SH NOTES
This recorder supports interval values lower than second ! 
Running the recorder with values lower than second for long
periods of time will add an overhead in terms of cpu utilization.
The lower the interval value the higher the cpu utilization. We do
not recommend using values lower than second for long historical
recordings !

.PP
webrec records up to 43 metrics under Linux OS x64 and x86 platforms.

.PP
.SH DOCUMENTATION
See Kronometrix documentation for more details.

.SH EXIT
webrec will run continuously until is stopped by the master script 
or manually stopped.
 
.SH AUTHOR
Stefan Parvu
.SH SEE ALSO
perl(1)
